# SISP (Swarm Intelligence Senior Project)

An implementation of swarm intelligence. Simulates a swarm of insect-like robots that search for resources in their environment.

## User's Guide:
  The fields in the upper part of the controls frame labeled “Weights” and “Distribution” allow the user to change the parameters of the blue swarm shown on the screen. The fields in the “Weights” section affect how specialized the behavior of the Bugs is. The greater the “Highest” value is relative to the other two values causes more specialized behavior. The sum of these values must be less than or equal to one. In the “Distribution” section, the “Explorers” and “Swarmers” fields are for the percentage of the swarm population that are explorers and swarmers, respectively. The remaining percentage of the population will be matchers. The sum of these two values must be less than or equal to 100. The value in the field labeled “Grabbers” is the percentage of the population that can grab some objects. This value must be less than or equal to 100. Hitting the SET button will re-initialize the blue swarm with these new values. 
	
  The slider labeled “Resources” changes the number of resource goals (green circles) in the environment. The slider labeled “Walls” changes the number of wall segments in the environment. The slider labeled “Swarm Size” changes the number of bugs in each swarm on the screen.
	
  The PHER button switches the view between normal and pheromone view, which lets the user see the pheromone trails left by the bugs. The CONTROL button causes the bugs to ignore each other entirely. Hitting the CONTEST button switches between contest and normal mode, where contest has two swarms compete for the resources in the environment. Hitting the SAVE button while in contest mode will save the parameters of the winning swarm to be loaded by the red swarm in contest mode, or by the blue swarm in normal mode. Running the program in DEBUG mode causes the program to output other information. The RUN button makes the simulation run, the STEP button advances one time-step. Hitting RESTART re-initializes the swarm(s) with the same walls and resources, while RESET creates new walls and resources as well. The “Delay” slider affects how quickly the simulation runs.
